---
layout: post
title:      "My reason for becoming a  software developer..."
date:       2020-03-03 19:22:20 +0000
permalink:  my_reason_for_becoming_a_software_developer
---


I started working when I was 16 years old and have worked all sorts of manual labor jobs and gigs. Some of these jobs were as a landscaper, general contractor, painter, boat waxer, and security gaurd. I got tired of the short term work and went back to school with the idea of getting a job I could do anywhere. So I went to school to become an aircraft maintenance technician. I got certified in 2014 and went strait to work all big eyed and nervous. This was my second professional job and it was really fun and fast paced. Down side was this job required a lot of my time and was extremely physically demanding. I spent three years working mainenance then quite and went to work for Boeing Commercial Airplanes where I worked as a functional test mechanic. It was my teams job to test and verify that the engines and landing gear work as they were suposed too for safe flight and landing. There is a lot I could say about boeing thats negative and a lot I could say that positive. The short is, they will make you wealthy by demanding your time, whether you want to be wealthy or have free time or not. This caused my great discomfort even with a 50% pay bump because you can't replace the time you loose. I am a famliy oriented person and I enjoy my time with my family. So, again, I went looking for a new line of work. A few of my friends and family members suggested I finnally get a 'real' job at a desk. I took this as a serious moment to re-evaluate what I wanted in life. Me becoming a software developer satisfies the requirement of me wanting a job I can take anywhere and most tech companies also have set schedules for working hours, which translates to more family time than I have had in the last six years. This is going to be an amazing transition and I have plenty of support. I wish my cohort all the success as we continue through this course.
